## The Pen Data

As part of Cooper Hewitt's commitment to open data, we are releasing an anonymized, obfuscated version of the data generated by our interactive Pen. The purpose of this data release is to allow artists, researchers and data scientists the ability to analyze our data and generate visualizations, and discover behavior patterns and more. 

### Use

This data is published simply as a cvs file. This means you can download the entire dataset at once and use with many data analysis tools and languages such as Excel, Python and R.

### Pen Collected Items

The dataset contains the following fields:

* id - an incremental row ID.
* tool_id - an ID representing the interactive tool that created the row. More on this below.
* bundle_id - an obfuscated representation of a “visit.”
* refers_to_object_id - the Cooper Hewitt collection object ID.
* created - a UNIX timestamp.

### Tool IDs

The tool_id field refers to the interactive application that created the row. A tool_id of 0 means that the Pen was used to collect an object from one of our wall labels.

The other non-wall-label tools are as follows:

  * 1 = Sketchbot
  * 3 = Immersion Room
  * 4 = Wallpaper Photo
  * 5 = Body Scan
  * 6 = Process Lab
  * 7 = Revolve
  * 8 = Extrude
  * 9 = Pattern
  * 10 = Building
  * 11 = Hat
  * 12 = Table
  * 13 = Lamp
  * 14 = Chair
  * 15 = Freeform
  * 16 = Vase
  * 17 = Wild Ideas

### Privacy

At Cooper Hewitt, we are committed to the privacy of our visitors. This is why the data made available in this data set has been modified from its original form.

To ensure that the data of our visitors remains private, we are performing the following to obfuscate and anonymize this data:

1. ID’s that refer to the item that was collected have been converted to simple incremental row IDs.
2. Any rows that have been associated with an account have been removed.
3. bundle_id’s have been hashed so that they resemble a visitors “short code” but are not representative of actual short codes.
4. Data only includes unclaimed ( not associated with an account ) rows, thirty days prior to the release of this data. This allows any visitor to claim their data from at least thirty days following their visit and NOT have it appear in this dataset.

### License

This data is licensed using the Creative Commons Attribution-Non-Commercial License. This means that this data may not be used by any third party entities for commercial purposes. The full details of this license can be found [here](LICENSE.md).
